Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses which may cause illness in animals or humans.  
In humans, several coronaviruses are known to cause respiratory infections ranging from the 
common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). 
The most recently discovered coronavirus causes coronavirus disease COVID-19.
COVID-19 is the infectious disease caused by the most recently discovered coronavirus. 
This new virus and disease were unknown before the outbreak began in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. 
COVID-19 is now a pandemic affecting many countries globally.
The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, dry cough, and tiredness. 
Other symptoms that are less common and may affect some patients include aches 
and pains, nasal congestion, headache, conjunctivitis, sore throat, diarrhea, 
loss of taste or smell or a rash on skin or discoloration of fingers or toes. 
These symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. 
Some people become infected but only have very mild symptoms.
Most people (about 80%) recover from the disease without needing hospital treatment. 
Around 1 out of every 5 people who gets COVID-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. 
Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart and lung problems, 
diabetes, or cancer, are at higher risk of developing serious illness.  
However, anyone can catch COVID-19 and become seriously ill.  
People of all ages who experience fever and/or  cough associated with difficulty breathing/shortness of breath, 
chest pain/pressure, or loss of speech or movement should seek medical attention immediately. 
If possible, it is recommended to call the health care provider or facility first, 
so the patient can be directed to the right clinic.
People can catch COVID-19 from others who have the virus. 
The disease spreads primarily from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth, 
which are expelled when a person with COVID-19 coughs, sneezes, or speaks. 
These droplets are relatively heavy, do not travel far and quickly sink to the ground. 
People can catch COVID-19 if they breathe in these droplets from a person infected with the virus.  
This is why it is important to stay at least 1 meter) away from others. 
These droplets can land on objects and surfaces around the person such as tables, doorknobs and handrails.  
People can become infected by touching these objects or surfaces, then touching their eyes, nose or mouth.  
This is why it is important to wash your hands regularly with soap and water or clean with alcohol-based hand rub.
Practicing hand and respiratory hygiene is important at ALL times and is the best way to protect others and yourself.
When possible maintain at least a 1 meter distance between yourself and others. 
This is especially important if you are standing by someone who is coughing or sneezing.  
Since some infected persons may not yet be exhibiting symptoms or their symptoms may be mild, 
maintaining a physical distance with everyone is a good idea if you are in an area where COVID-19 is circulating. 
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus.
Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without requiring special treatment.  Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer are more likely to develop serious illness.
The best way to prevent and slow down transmission is be well informed about the COVID-19 virus, the disease it causes and how it spreads. Protect yourself and others from infection by washing your hands or using an alcohol based rub frequently and not touching your face. 
The COVID-19 virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes, so it’s important that you also practice respiratory etiquette (for example, by coughing into a flexed elbow).
At this time, there are no specific vaccines or treatments for COVID-19. However, there are many ongoing clinical trials evaluating potential treatments. WHO will continue to provide updated information as soon as clinical findings become available.

To prevent infection and to slow transmission of COVID-19, do the following:
Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, or clean them with alcohol-based hand rub.
Maintain at least 1 metre distance between you and people coughing or sneezing.
Avoid touching your face.
Cover your mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing.
Stay home if you feel unwell.
Refrain from smoking and other activities that weaken the lungs.
Practice physical distancing by avoiding unnecessary travel and staying away from large groups of people.
COVID-19 affects different people in different ways. Most infected people will develop mild to moderate illness and recover without hospitalization.
Most common symptoms are fever,  dry cough, tiredness.
Less common symptoms are aches and pains , sore throat, diarrhoea, conjunctivitis, headache, loss of taste or smell and a rash on skin, or discolouration of fingers or toes.
Serious symptoms are difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, loss of speech or movement.
Seek immediate medical attention if you have serious symptoms.  Always call before visiting your doctor or health facility. 
People with mild symptoms who are otherwise healthy should manage their symptoms at home. 
On average it takes 5–6 days from when someone is infected with the virus for symptoms to show, however it can take up to 14 days.